well howdy there internet people lisbo
again
so today i have georgia on my mind
because you all keep asking about it um
oddly enough nobody from georgia has
asked about it and nobody actually cares
about the candidates in this case
they're concerned about the long-term
impacts from the outcome because the
stakes are incredibly
high okay
so what's happening it's a runoff
election on january
5th early voting has already started at
stake or two senate seats
if the democrats win them they get the
majority in the senate
which means they will control the house
the senate and the presidency
okay democrats lead in polling
by a hair and i mean
it's within the margin of error it is
not a substantial lead um
now if republicans win both mcconnell
keeps his position
senate majority leader but he did so
with trump's help
because trump has uh pushed the two
republican candidates
that kind of undermines his effort to
make people
in congress choose you're going to be
part of the party of mcconnell
or the party of trump
that's going to upset his efforts there
if democrats win both
mcconnell loses the majority and trump
becomes
even more irrelevant because he has put
his
clout behind these candidates
now there are weird considerations in
this race
first is that it's not at a normal time
it's a runoff race it's off cycle
generally speaking it is those who are
most engaged
and think strategically that show up for
these races
that show up for these elections that's
normally republicans
that being said there are some things
going against republicans on this one
the candidates on the republican side
have backed trump's
claims about the election the
unsubstantiated
unfounded claims that he keeps making
and they did so about george's elections
their own elections that may
depress turnout i mean why go vote if it
doesn't matter
you know mcconnell's move
of welcoming biden going ahead and
saying that he's president-elect
may also depress turnout because there
may be trump loyalists
who are spiteful go figure
and uh want to punish mcconnell
and if their candidates in georgia lose
well he loses his position too
that may be a play on top of that
the president's threatened veto of the
ndaa
could could change the minds
of military voters a demographic that
he's not doing well with um
that republicans tend to
so there's there's a lot of unusual
considerations in this race
all right so long term if the democrats
win
what happens they control it all and
they will be free to undo
a lot of the bad policies and the damage
that
trump has done progressives don't get
too excited because there's a whole lot
of bad policies and a whole lot of
damage that has to be undone
the odds that truly progressive policies
are going to be pushed through over the
next four years
it's kind of slim it's going to be very
return to status quo
now if the republicans win what happens
they become obstructionists they try to
keep trump's bad policies in place as
much as they can
to punish voters so they
blame biden that's really
what they're going to try to do that and
block appointments
those are the long-term strategic
implications of the race in georgia and
at the end of the day who's going to win
whoever has highest turnout
it is that close as far as polling is
concerned
you know they keep playing up the fact
that democrats are leading
but it's not a substantial lead at all
and it's all going to revolve
around who shows up generally when you
are talking about
this kind of election republicans have
higher turnout
that will alter the polls
but this is a weird this is a weird case
because the candidates have kind of
damaged
themselves and may have decreased their
own
turnout in the process
so there's
there's the situation as far as a
prediction i don't have one i don't have
a clue
i have no clue how this is going to turn
out
um but especially for those overseas who
are wondering why everybody cares about
this so much
it boils down to the democrats ability
to seize control
of the senate which means mitch
mcconnell
won't have the power he currently has
that's that's the reason the entire
country cares
about the senators that georgia elects
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day